---
openspp:
  doc_status: unverified
  products: [core]
---

# User Management

User management focuses on safeguarding user data and controls how users access and interact with modules implemented. This system administers user identities, authenticates them, and authorizes them for certain roles and privileges. Effective user management includes several layers, such as user {term}`authentication`, authorization, and auditing, each serving a unique purpose in maintaining integrity and security.

Roles in OpenSPP are central to its user management framework. These roles are essentially a set of permissions that define what actions users can perform within the system. This allows users’ permissions to be managed and administrated easily. These roles can vary, typically including administrators, managers, and general users, each with distinct privileges. Administrators usually have the highest level of access, capable of modifying system settings and managing other users, while general users may have limited access, focused on specific tasks.

Two primary approaches can be adopted for managing users in OpenSPP, each with its unique set of features and benefits.

1. Native Odoo User Management: Utilizing Odoo’s built-in functionalities, this approach is ideal for deployments looking for a straightforward and integrated solution. It offers a user-friendly interface for managing user accounts, assigning roles, and setting access controls. This approach is well-suited for deployments looking for a simple implementation.

2. Keycloak Integration: For organizations seeking more advanced user management features, integrating Keycloak with OpenSPP is recommended. Keycloak provides additional layers of security and flexibility, including federated identities (linking user identities across different systems), fine-grained access control, and comprehensive single sign-on capabilities. This approach is particularly beneficial for larger deployments or those requiring more sophisticated identity management solutions.

Despite the approach selected, adhering to best practices in user management is essential for maximizing the efficiency and security of OpenSPP.

1. Regular Review and Update of User Access: It's crucial to audit user accounts and their access levels regularly. This practice helps in identifying redundant accounts or inappropriate access privileges that could pose security risks.
2. Implementing the Principle of Least Privilege: By ensuring that users have only the access necessary to perform their job functions, organizations can significantly reduce the risk of internal and external breaches.
3. Enforcing Strong Password Policies: Implement policies that require complex passwords, encourage users to change passwords regularly, and use multi-factor authentication where possible.
4. Educating Users: Regular training sessions and updates on security practices and system usage guidelines can significantly reduce the risk of accidental breaches or misuse.
5. Monitoring User Activities: Implementing tools for real-time monitoring and generating periodic reports helps in identifying unusual activities potential security threats, and ensuring compliance with policies.

Expanding and focusing on each of these aspects will be vital to enable proper user management.
